---
layout: post
title:  "Let's Run Away to Paris"
categories: travel sabbatical paris
---

My first experience in Paris five years ago was miserable, entirely turning me off Europe and group trips for the following reasons:

* We were a group of three couples visiting France for spring break, so it was not the romantic getaway that I had originally imagined, since the six of us were together at all times the entire week.
* Instead of staying in a comfortable Airbnb, we wanted to "meet other travelers" by staying in a hostel. It was my first ever hostel experience, although not a realistic one since the six of us were isolated in a single bedroom with our own bathroom. We never interacted with any other travelers during the trip.
* Our breakfast everyday was the same: bagguette with butter, cheese, and nutella. I didn't mind so much the first couple of days, but by the end of the week, I was definitely craving eggs and meat.
* No free tap water at restaurants and cafes. A small bottle of water was often more expensive than a glass of wine.

The past three days in Paris has been the blissful vacation I was hoping to take during my unpaid time off. We had scheduled activities to prevent excessive boredom but also had planned downtime to stroll the Parisian streets and rest from travel exhaustion.

Some highlights of our trip:

* Visiting Google Paris. We arrived in the morning on a redeye and couldn't check-in until afternoon. The Google office provided a haven for us to drop off our luggage, catch up on sleep, and eat breakfast and lunch. The office itself was one of the most beautiful offices I have visited, with the decor flowing smoothly from one section to another.
* My first time dining in a 3 michilin star restaurant. The service was impeccable, and they event lent me a jacket to wear during dinner so I could look pretty for photos.
* Chamagne on bikes. We took a day trip to Champagne to visit a cellar and wandered around the city on bikes which we rented for 15 euros each. I think one visit to a cellar is enough, since they all seemed to be the general tour of the caves and tasting. Champagne is a very bike friendly city, and if I would rent bikes again for my next visit.
* Farmer's market and cooking class. We signed up for an Airbnb experience where our host took us through the farmer's market, teaching us about the history of food and how to pick high quality ingredients. In the afternoon, we went to his home and cooked lunch and dessert.
* Public transportation. I remembered the trains being easy to access during my last trip, but I truly appreciated this time around after living in NYC for four years. We also used electric scooters to zoom through the streets. They were really fun and efficient except for the cobblestones. I think on flat paved roads they would be my transit method of choice, but there were too many roads with cobblestones in Paris.