---
layout: post
title:  "Street Racing on GoKarts"
categories: travel sabatical japan
---

Okay, the title is a little misleading, I'll admit. It was more like a tour of the city on these tiny racecars rather than an actual race, but that's not to detract from the experience. In Japan, it's legal to drive these on the road, so companies will rent them out for tours of the city. They used to provide Super Mario themed costumes, parodying Nintendo's Mario Kart, until they were sued successfully by Nintendo. You can still dress up in different onsies that they provide, but no Mario-themed characters are available, and each cart displays "Unrelated to Nintendo" in bold letters.

I picked MariCar, the original company that came up with the idea, but only because it had a facility in Shibuya that was close to where I was staying. Different facilities have different tour types and lengths, but I thought one hour was more than enough time. By the end, I was feeling lightheaded from breathing in all the exhaust from the karts in front of me. Booking was done through Facebook messenger (very English friendly), and the entire experience cost 85000 yen with a 1000 yen discount for liking their page on Facebook.

In order to even be allowed to drive these things, you need to get an International Driver's License if you are from the States. These are pretty easy to get, though; simply go to your local AAA (no appointment needed) and pay $20 for the license and another $10ish for taking and printing out a passport photo (or bring your own). You'll also need your passport and US driver's license. I was in and out in under 20 minutes.

The actual tour itself was 6 tourists and one guide who spoke English. We drove in a single file line and paired up two per row at stop lights, perfect for having our picture taken by the guide. Every 20 minutes we switched out the two drivers in the front so everyone had a photo opportunity.