---
layout: post
title:  "Taxi Adventures in Africa"
categories: travel sabbatical tunisia
---

I found myself alone in Tunisia. I was supposed to be with Lena, staying in the safety and comfort of an international hotel, but her work schedule changed less than a week before the trip and exactly two days after I had already booked my non-refundable flights. No matter, I've traveled alone plenty of times before, and it's only for a week.

Lena mentioned that I should find an offical taxi company to avoid any trouble, so I followed the signs for the taxi line from the airport. Two men approached me immediately as I exited the airport.

"English taxi?" one asked while the other reached to help me with my suitcase.

"Yeah, I'm looking for a taxi," I responded, holding my suitcase tightly and trying to walk past them. Living in NYC taught me not to trust people soliciting rides from airports.

"It's okay, I'm the first taxi in the line right there, I'll take you where you need to go," the driver followed. I lowered my suspicions when he led me to the first car in a line of cab-looking cars. The airport signs also led to this very location.

He opened the backseat of his car for me to get in, and took my suitcase. Some other men were talking to him in Arabic, and it seemed like they were arguing over who would get to drive me. Not necessarily a bad sign, since I'm sure real taxi drivers might get into arguments as well, but something to keep in mind. I kept my eyes on my suitcase, making sure one of his partners didn't run off with it, as he maneuvered it around his car trying to decide where to place it before eventually deciding to put it on the front seat.

"Which hotel?"

"Not a hotel," I replied while showing him the address of my Airbnb on my phone.

"60 dinars, flat rate," he said. 60 dinars, or 20 USD for a 20 minute ride is more than what you would pay in Manhattan.

"What, that's too much, I was expecting to pay 30!" I had looked up the taxi rates really quickly beforehand, and the amount of time + distance to the airbnb should be aroudn 20 dinars. I was willing to cut some slack and pay 30 in case there was some airport surcharge or luggage fee that I wasn't familar with.

"It's 60 dinars, but we can do 50." I was already in his car, with my luggage in the front seat. I doubt the men standing around the car would give me a better rate, and my 12+ hours of travel including a redeye didn't help my decision making. Now I know to simply leave if the cab driver doesn't turn on a meter. After some research, I learned that unofficial cartels of cab drivers wait outside the airport, working together to prey on tourists. I'm not sure if I could have avoided over paying in this situation, but I probably could have bargained it down a bit more with more information.

Luckily, I have the priviledge of not being too hurt by these common scams while traveling, and at the end of the day, I only paid an extra $10-$12 USD. I suppose it's only fair, since we travel to these foreign countries and take advantage of the low cost in labor and food with our Western salaries. I made up for it later by spending $1 on a sandwich and fries for lunch and less than $3 for a coffee, freshly squeezed orange juice, and cheese and ham crepe for dinner.

Later that evening, after a few hours of visiting touristy areas and wandering the city, I decided to start looking for a cab to head back. I waited by the beach for about 5 minutes, not seeing a single taxi pass by, so I headed over to a busier intersection where I saw a ton of cabs drive by. All of them were full, and I noticed a bunch of other people standing around waiting. One guy sniped a cab as it dropped someone off. After waiting 15 minutes or so and watching dozens of already-full cabs pass by, I noticed another cab stopped to drop someone off, only to see at least 15 people rush over trying to get a ride. Catching a taxi here at this time was hopeless.

I messaged my Airbnb host, asking her if there was another way to get home by public transit (which Google Maps unfortunately doesn't have information about), and she said I could try walking to the nearby train station and taking the 3 line to the station closest to her house. Seems simple enough, I thought.

I walked up to the ticket counter and asked for instructions to my destination. It looked like the officers were packing up and getting ready to leave, which meant that you could ride the train for free.

"Take this train and get off at the next station," he said. The next station wasn't my destination, so presumably I am to transfer there. After thanking him, I boarded the train.

No one got on or off the next station. If this was a station where I could transfer, I would have expected other travelers transfering, so I decided to stay on. A quick Google search didn't yield any transit map that had both my start and end destinations, and the path of the current train was going South whereas I wanted to go West, so I got off two stops later at a station where others were also departing.

The station was well lit, with a decent amount of car traffic, so I decided to wait for a cab again. The next train going the opposite direction arrived 10 minute later before any empty cabs did, so I hopped on. Maybe I should have trusted the ticket officer, so I counted two stops before getting off. The train station was in a not so well lit residential area and devoid of other people. There weren't any information around on train schedules, so instead of waiting around to get kidnapped or murdered, I started walking to a busier area.

I passed by a hotel on the way, and asked the doorman out front if he could call me a cab. The doorman didn't speak English, but pointed me to another guy who was also waiting for a cab and spoke English. He was only going a few minutes away, but said we could share a cab, and he'd tell the driver where to drop me off. After spending most of the day not knowing what anyone around you is saying, it felt good to be in the presence of another English speaking person that wasn't trying to sell you something at 3x the price.

The first cab that stopped to drop off a hotel guest refused to take me, since it was too out of the way for him. Uh oh, we might have a problem. My English speaking companion could have easily just ditched me, but he decided to help me out by waiting for the next one.

The next driver dropped off his guest and immediately went to take off the sign on top of his car, indicating that he was ending his shift, but my companion spoke with him in French for a bit, before motioning for me to get in the car. Once we were in the car, it was clear that he hadn't told the driver where I needed to be dropped off, and they spent some time negotiating back and forth, with my companion pointing to the meter multiple times, indicating that he wanted to only pay the meter price.

"He wants 30 dinars for the whole trip, which is ridiculous. It should only cost me about 2 dinars to get to my destination," he told me.

"It's fine, let's just do it. I just want to go home."

"Ok, I'll try to negotiate it down to 20." We eventually settled on 25, but he would only drop me off on the main road, and I'd have to walk the rest of the way.

From start to finish, it took me two hours to travel the 15km distance back to my Airbnb. I think I might stick to places within walking distance for the next two days I'm here.