---
layout: post
title:  "Terrain Park Only"
categories: travel sabatical vermont
---

Not wanting to waste our Epic Pass, Lena and I planned a weekend at Stowe Resort in Vermont, dragging seven of our friends with us. Lena took the Friday off and planned on flying in from her training in Tampa Thursday night, so she could get in 3 days of boarding in. Our friend, Nam, was in between jobs so the two of us drove up Wednesday evening to get two extra days of boarding in before the weekend when it would be more crowded. The rest of the crew planned on driving up after work on Friday night.

Those two extra days were amazing. The slopes were clear, lines non-exisitent. Terrain parks can get especially crowded on weekends, as everyone is lining up for their turn. As a beginner park rider, I still get nerves having so many people watch me fall on my face, so we took full advantage of the empty park on the first day. It snowed that night and throughout the day on Friday, so the three of us explored the rest of the mountain, riding down powdery terrains and exploring untouched patches of snow through the trees. My riding definitely improved over these two days, and I gained confidence in my tree glades riding and jumps in the park.

Our group experience over the weekend days solidified my decision to never visit Vermont if I only plan on riding for two days. It's simply not worth driving 6+ hours through New York traffic on Friday night, arriving well past midnight, just to spend most of the day waiting in lift lines and avoiding crowds of other riders. Saturday was especially bad; due to windy conditions, most of the lifts were closed and the line for the one available lift was almost an hour long. Luckily, the weather cleared up on Sunday and everyone (except Jenny and Ken who only planned on skiing Saturday) got some good runs in.

"Terrain park only for me today. Feel free to join me." I was determined to keep working on the tricks I learned in Japan. Half of my motivation for snowboarding is looking stylish, and I still have a lot to work on if I want to attract positive attention while riding. Janet, Nam, Zee, and I ran laps for the rest of the day, most of us injuring ourselves throughout the process, still trying to retain our youthful days.